# Characters

A character is any sentient entity in the game; this include animals, people, player avatars, henchmen, etc. 

## Base Attributes

Characters all have the same fundamental attributes. 
These attributes range from 0..10; most humans have attributes in the range of 4-6. 

### Speed

Athletic skill, reflexes and movement. The basis for most physical skills. 

### Will 

Social skills, pain threshold, and empathy. Also serves as the basis for paranormal power. 

### Mind

Intelligence, perception, and memory. The basis for most mental skills. 

### Body

Your health, damage resistance, and physical strength. 

## Skills

Skills define the activity your character is proficient in. They are organized in colleges. Each skill is based on an 
attribute. Purchasing a skill once gives you a rank equal to that base attribute. Each level of skil purchased past that 
increases your rank at that attribute by one level. Purchasing colleges has the same effect for all skills within that college.

One detail: skils can appear in multiple colleges; if you have multiple colleges with the same skill, you get the best
rank based on the college with the most levels; the other colleges have no effect on your proficiency.

## Generating Characters

There are two ways to generate characters:
 
### Point-based Characters

Players can purchase character ability with using Ability Points. Typical characters
start with 36 points. 

* Skills cost one Ability Point to acquire and 2 points per extra level; starting characters 
  cannot increase a skill over +2. Skills in your college are automatically acquired at level 0.
* Colleges cost four Ability Points.
* Attributes are purchased on a increasing AP scale:

<md-content>
  <md-toolbar layout layout-align="center center">
    <span>
      Cost per Attribute
    </span>
  </md-toolbar>

  <section layout-padding layout="row">
<div class="c" flex>3</div>
<div  class="c" flex>4</div>
<div class="c"  flex>5</div>
<div  class="c" flex>6</div>
<div  class="c" flex>7</div>
<div  class="c" flex>8</div>
<div class="c"  flex>9</div>
<div class="c"  flex>10</div>
</section>

<div layout="row">
<div  class="c" flex>-10</div>
<div  class="c" flex>-6</div>
<div  class="c" flex>0</div>
<div class="c"  flex>6</div>
<div class="c"  flex>13</div>
<div class="c"  flex>21</div>
<div  class="c" flex>30</div>
<div class="c"  flex>40</div>
</div>
</md-content>

### Random Characters

Characters can be generated by drawing 12 cards; face cards (Jack, Queen and King) count as two cards. 

  <character-generator-table></character-generator-table>

#### Tweaking the draw 

Given that it makes sense to improve a base attribute for an area in which you have skills, you can if you wish 
take one attribute 

If by some fluke no face cards are drawn, you can trade the last two cards you have drawn for +1 in any attribute,
or the last 4 cards you have drawn for +2 in one attribute or +1 in two attributes. 

Alternately, you can trade any face card for two redraws. If you do so, when you draw those two cards,
discard and redraw any face cards until you have two non face cards.

### Hybrid Characters

You can also part-pick, part-purchase your character; you can take 18 character points and 6 draws, for instance. 
If so, draw cards first; you can then if you wish pay the difference to increase your attributes or skills

